Automatons in SteamJazz are divided into two distinct groups.
Some automatons are so simple that sorting boxes into piles
causes them difficulty, whereas other automatons have no
trouble making independent decisions while adventuring, What
makes these two groups apart is the CIC, or the Crystal
Intelligence Clockwork. A CIC is a small intelligence
clockwork mechanism designed to be added into any kind of
automaton for greater intelligence and more independent action.
It is possible for any kind of automaton to have a CIC - and
because the device is relatively inexpensive, installing that
extra intelligence even to automatons designed for manual
labour is a small investment for much greater potential.
Although it is common knowledge that the CIC enhances the
intelligence and decision-making capabilities of automatons,
what isn’t known is that the CIC also gives the automaton
emotions and feelings. All player character automatons are
equipped with a Crystal Intelligence Clockwork. Some
automatons with a CIC are content with their lives as machines
in the service of humans, but some have developed a desire for
independence, which has led to some rogue automatons running
away from their masters. Some automatons have great difficulty
understanding the meaning of their emotions, which causes
them some existential headache, but the greatest trouble finding
their place in the world is suffered by those automatons who are
genuinely beginning to understand what it means to have
emotions and a free will.
All automatons have some common traits. As automatons are
machines, built by humans, they are treated accordingly.
Humans do not see automatons as persons, but as someone’s
property. Therefore automatons usually do not have any
possessions. Automatons don’t breathe, eat or drink. They are
immune to diseases and poisons. They do not tire like living
beings. Automatons calculate their carrying limits from STR
only. An automaton character’s CON stat affects only its Hit
Points; an automaton has 3x CON Hit Points. An automaton’s
STR and CON scores are strongly linked: all automatons must
have their initial STR and CON at the same value. Additional
modifiers from background, modifications or equipment may
increase either attribute above the other.
All automatons (except dolls and coppers) have a thin layer of
armor for protection offering 2 AV as part of their standard
design. The armour can be upgraded to a heavier version or
removed altogether to be replaced with rubbery skin-like tissue.
All standard automatons run on powerful winding springs in
their torsos. They are recharged with a winding mechanism
located in the back. The winding mechanism is usually operated
with a separate steam engine. The basic winding spring can
power an automaton for 24 hours with full winding. After that
the automaton can act on spare power for the next 24 hours, but
suffers a -4 penalty to all checks and can only walk half speed
until wound again. The winding spring can be replaced with a
back-mounted steam engine. All automatons also have the
considered property disadvantage. Its cost is already included in
the automaton race package, so you do not get extra points for
selecting it. This disadvantage may never be removed.
Automatons may not have a greater wealth level than drifter at
character creation. Automatons may choose certain advantages
and disadvantages available only for automatons, but cannot
choose any advantages that are labelled for “living” but not for
“automaton”. Automatons can be upgraded with Automaton
Upgrades, which can be found in the Equipment chapter.
Money for these upgrades can be acquired during character
creation with the upgraded automaton advantage.
