EMP -1, CHA -2, allocate +2 to one of the following attributes:
STR, CON, DEX, REF, WIT and +1 to another attribute from
the list.
Animal Handling +1
Advantage: Alertness
Advantage: Keen Sense of Smell
Must purchase at least one Advantage: Natural Weapon.
Must purchase at least one of the following advantages:
Hardened Skin, Low-light Vision, Keen Hearing and Keen
Sense of Sight.

Instinctive behavior: All beastfolk react instinctively to sudden,
unexpected loud noises and sudden, unexpected movements
close-by. When a beastfolk character is created, you must
determine an instinctive, animal-like reaction for the character.
The character always reacts to such situations with the chosen
instinctive behavior. Examples: Character leaps to the closest
cover, character attacks with a melee or natural weapon,
character flees, etc... The character’s initiative changes as if he
would have delayed his action and he gets to act on the next
round normally. Instinctive behaviour generally doesn’t trigger
during combat.

All mutants have the social status: mutie disadvantage and
must purchase a mutant disadvantage worth at least 3 CP to
represent that no mutant is born perfect.
Beastfolk are a group of people living in the Shadewood Forest
deep in Victora. It is not known how long these mutants have
existed, but stories of beastly humanoids in Victoran folklore
have been told for hundreds of years. As far as it is known, all
of the beastfolk originate from these woods where some plants
and mammals specific to that area exist. There is a village near
the Shadewood forest where people occasionally contract a deadly 
disease that causes horrible tumors, and sometimes
babies start turning into beasts during the first months of their
lives. The villagers have an old tradition of taking these babies
to a forest shrine to calm the spirits of the forest. The beastfolk
Keepers have a duty to collect these infants from the shrine and
see that they are raised among the beastfolk tribe. The beastfolk
were seen as evil spirits in Victoran folklore for centuries, and
in the old times they were killed on sight. With the increased
understanding brought by science, beastfolk today are able to
interact with humans more peacefully.

Beastfolk sport features and traits of a mammal, usually a beast
native to their region, such as wolf, bear, lynx and fox, but in
rare cases less beastly mammals like weasels and rats and even
herbivores like deer. Their bodies are hairier than those of
normal people, and many of them have claws and canine fangs.
Many beastfolk have better hearing than normal humans, and
they are naturally highly alert. They are mostly humanoid by
stature and facial structure, but always look distinctively
animal-like. Some of them have a snout-like nose and mouth
and bestial eyes. Some of them have tails, though it is not
common. Beastfolk traditionally live in small groups of
wandering hunter-gatherers in their woods, but nowadays some
of them have left their tribe and traveled to see the world.
Beastfolk can reproduce with humans, and around half of the
time their children are born with beastfolk features.