CON +1
Initial skill ranks: Survival 2, Animal Handling 1, Brawl 1
15 CP can be used to buy ranks in the following skills: Animal
Handling, Archery, Athletics, Brawl, Climb, First Aid,
Knowledge (Astrology), Knowledge (Folklore), Knowledge
(Zoology), Listen, Melee (Balanced), Melee (Powerful), Sense
Motive, Spot, Stealth, Survival, Track, or to the Animal
Empathy advantage.


The beastfolk originate from the Shadewood Forest in Victora,
and this background represents those beastfolk who have been
raised among the tribes calling Shadewood their home. They
have a long history of mutual fear and hatred towards humans,
as they are the very monsters humans describe in old folktales,
and stories of fairy folk snatching children from their cots and
werewolves preying upon maidens in the moonlit nights both
have their origins in the history of the beastfolk. Even though
they can nowadays move and live among humans, this history
still affects the lives of the beastfolk strongly, making many of
them bitter and suspicious towards humans.
The beastfolk raised in Shadewood forest may have been born
there to beastfolk parents, or she could be a mutant child born
to human parents in one of the villages near the forest,
abandoned by her parents and brought by a druid for the
beastfolk tribe to raise as one of their own. The small tribes
look after their children as a community, so the whole tribe
counts as family to the beastfolk children, not only their
biological parents and siblings (who may in fact wish she had
never been born).
In order to survive life in the wilderness, Beastfolk children are
taught at a young age how to move in the woods and the skills
of hunting and fighting, tracking and trapmaking. The beastfolk
live with the animals of the forest in an almost symbiotic
relationship, so the most important thing taught to Beastfolk
children is how to interact with animals. Even those without the
animal empathy advantage are trained to be skilled in handling
the beasts of the wilds.
The beastfolk do not follow any of the gods of the big religions
of Erthair, but they revere the spirits of the nature. Their
spiritual leaders are druids, who are also responsible for
collecting the Beastfolk children born outside the tribes and
possibly saving their lives from distraught human parents.
Those Beastfolk who have the deepest connection with nature
and the closest rapport with animals are most likely to become
druids.
The life of Beastfolk is harsh. Everything they need for their
living must be scraped together from the forest, and many
children die young if the years are hard. Beastfolk do not erect
towns or villages. Instead, the tribes roam the woods, migrating
depending on weather, time of the year and other natural
conditions, living in tent camps or simply beneath the natural
cover provided by the woods. The tribe is very important to
Beastfolk. Their work is always for the good of the tribe, which
cares for the young and the weak in return. In a Beastfolk
community, those with great physical strength often rise to high
standing, although some tribes look up to those with great
wisdom and understanding of the ways of nature instead.
Although the druids offer the tribes spiritual guidance,
leadership of the tribes is usually assumed by the strongest.

Adventuring as Beastfolk:
Although life in the Shadewood Forest quite possibly counts as
adventure by itself, the truly adventurous Beastfolk leave
behind the home they know to see the world. Beastfolk can now
be found in mercenary parties, pirate crews and sometimes even
serving in the army.

Suggested careers: Assassin, Craftsman, Druid, Hunter, Martial
Artist, Mercenary, Ranger, Rogue, Scout, Warrior

Typical names: Sometimes beastfolk use old Victoran names,
but it is more common to use descriptive ones. Typical male
beastfolk names include Angus, Barden, Fang, Spirit, Trevor
and Will. Female beastfolk names include Arlene, Beatha, Fair,
Nimble, Selma and Wind. Beastfolk have no surnames per se,
but when interacting with other tribes or other people not of
their tribe they usually use their tribe name as a substitute to a
surname. Typical tribe names include Claws, Fastfeet and
Sharpears, so a female beastfolk could introduce herself as Fair
Sharpears.