Cost to play: 15CP

STR -1, CON -1, INT +1, CHA +1, EMP +1
Advantage: Bilingual
Initial skill ranks: Etiquette 3, Cooking 2, Diplomacy 2,
Profession: Waiter 2
10 CP can be used to buy ranks in the following skills:
Clockwork, Cooking, Diplomacy, Etiquette, First Aid,
Language (any), Law (any), Leadership, Listen, Persuade,
Search, Sense Motive, Spot.

Models:
Colman Inc CCB-02 Butler, commonly referred to as "Charles"
or "Charles B-02"
Colman Inc CCB-03 Maid, commonly referred to as
“Charlotte” or “Charlotte B-03”

As the popularity of automaton workforce increased, so did the
need for more specialised models. As always, the aristocracy
was the first to adopt the new luxuries, calling for a reliable,
efficient and cheaper-to-upkeep replacement for their servants.
From a purely mechanical standpoint, Butlers are essentially
lighter versions of the basic archetype, with added emphasis on
balance and finesse as opposed to raw power and endurance.
However, their clockwork programming is also more
sophisticated by default, and Butlers usually come equipped
with more advanced social skills.
As the Butler designs were refined, so was their programming,
and the more modern automatons excel in psychology. When
combined with their extensive knowledge of law and
diplomacy, these Butlers are able to accurately anticipate the
ever-changing whims of their masters - sometimes even better
than their human counterparts.
Butler builds are similar in physical design to the basic
archetype, only usually lighter and with more delicate and
decorative features. For example, instead of bolted-on factorymade
metal masks, Butlers have more aesthetically pleasing
designs crafted of porcelain, marble or precious metals. Butler
faces are made to resemble human features, but are always
heavily stylised – closer to a stylistic Art Deco figurine than a
classic porcelain doll.
Many human masters become quite dependent on their Butlers
and learn to appreciate them much more than other automatons.
Then again, considering that most high-class noblemen treat
even their human servants as far-from-equals, this
preferentialism isn’t yet saying very much about how the
Butlers are actually treated.