Cost to play: 20 CP
DEX, INT or WIT +1
Initial skill ranks: Law (Crimson) 3, Brawl 2, First aid 2,
Martial Art (any Crimson) 2, Teaching 2, Clockwork 1, Dodge 1
10 CP can be used to buy ranks in the following skills:
Athletics, Brawl, Clockwork, Dodge, First aid, Knowledge
(any), Law (Crimson), Listen, Persuade, Martial art (one from
Crimson), Melee (Balanced), Melee (Finesse), Melee
(Powerful), Negotiate, Sense motive, Survival, Teaching,
Advantage: Crimson monk status
All characters of the Way of the Black Dragon have this
advatage. It is worth 10CP and the cost is already calculated
into the cost of this background package. This advantage
represents the special social status of the philosopher monks in
the Crimson Empire. All philosopher monks are expected to be
wise and righteous judges, teachers and warriors in the Crimson
Empire. They are above the rule and jurisdiction of the
shoguns, and only monks of higher rank and the Emperor
himself have the right to pass judgment upon a monk or
otherwise restrict her actions. It is extremely rare for a
philosopher monk to be found wanting in such a manner as to
warrant consequences.

Unlike other backgrounds with a cost, the 20 CP cost to to
play a character of the Way of the Black Dragon is paid
from career CP. The long and demanding training of the
philosopher monks is seen as part of their career training.

The Way of the Black Dragon teaches the philosophy, religious
beliefs and law of the Crimson Empire as well as martial arts
and techniques. Being raised to the Way of the Black Dragon
means becoming a philosopher monk of the Crimson Empire.
They are roaming monks who travel from village to village,
teaching people, solving conflicts and studying the mysteries of
the world. They act as judges and having the authority to pass
sentence to people according to their crimes. They also have an
important place in the power structure; with the exception of
the the Emperor, only monks of the Way of the Black Dragon
have the authority to judge the shoguns. The Council of the
philosopher monks also chooses a new emperor from among
the shoguns when the time arises.

The philosopher monks also keep an eye out for promising
children as they travel. Those who show interest and talent for
philosophy and learning are taken to one of their monasteries to
be raised in the Way of the Black Dragon, usually around the
age of 8 to 10 years. These chosen children come from all over
the Empire and from all paths of life. The monks do not usually
take the children by force, but that would seldom be necessary
in any case: most families see being chosen as a great honor
and encourage their chosen child to follow the monk and join
the Way. Once this Way has been chosen, it can never be
abandoned; those who walk the Way of the Black Dragon
follow it for the rest of their lives. After basic training at the
monastery, a mentor is nominated from among the veteran
monks for the monks-in-training to follow until they are ready
to assume the role of philosopher monks themselves.

Philosopher monks vow not to settle down until they become
too old or otherwise unable to serve in their duties anymore.
They travel all their lives, stopping only briefly in villages and
cities, and occasionally at the monasteries. The monks teaching
in the monasteries are either the elder monks who have given
up their travelling days or active monks who are only staying
there for a season to teach and then continue on their way
again. Monks are allowed to have relationships, and many even
have children, but they are not allowed to settle down even with
a family, nor may their family accompany them on their travels.

Monks are usually treated as welcome guests in villages and
cities, the village elders and even daimyos and shoguns offering
the best they have for them. This tends to guarantee that the
basic needs of a monk are always fulfilled, but they are never
allowed to own more than they can carry with them on their
travels. Most monks lead a very simple life, preferring to spend
most of their time in small villages and on the road than in the
great palaces of the shoguns.

Adventuring as Crimson philosopher monk:
Philosopher monks spend their lives travelling from place to
place, so adventuring could be considered their way of life.
Many philosopher monks encounter problems and mysteries on
their travels across the towns and villages and often consider it
their duty to help solve them, sometimes putting themselves in
peril. Philosopher monks are also sometimes sent abroad to
serve as diplomats.

Suggested careers: 
Detective, Law Enforcer, Lawyer, Martial
Artist, Physician, Politician, Scholar

Typical names: 
As people are chosen into the Way of the Black
Dragon from both those born into the Way of the Land and
those of the Way of the White Dragon, their names can come
from either group. When becoming monks, followers of the
Way of the Black Dragon take a descriptive name for
themselves to use for the rest of their lives. Names of this kind
include Calm Rain, Devout One, Gentle Voice, Indestructible
and Tigerclaw. 