STR, DEX or CHA +1
Initial skill ranks: Melee (Balanced) 2, Dodge 1, Law
(Crimson) 1
15 CP can be used to buy ranks in the following skills:
Archery, Athletics, Brawl, Craft (Blacksmithing), Negotiate,
Dodge, Intimidate, Law (Crimson), Listen, Martial Art (one
from Crimson), Melee (Balanced), Melee (Powerful), Persuade,
Ride, Spot, Strategy/Tactics

The Way of the White Dragon consists of the warriors of the
Crimson Empire and their families. Most individual followers
of this Way are common soldiers, but the followers of the White
Dragon also include the rulers of the Crimson Empire whose
power reflects upon the whole Way.

Usually those born to the families of soldiers and samurai are
raised to the Way of the White Dragon, and even some of the
girls receive combat training at young age. As the Way of the
White Dragon is not only one of a fighter, but also that of a
leader who can act as a commander for the common folk if
need be, education and social skills are important as well.

Usually these children receive at least a few years of education
in schools kept by the elders of the White Dragon. Children of
wealthier families can be taught by private governesses instead.
Sometimes children and youngsters who show promise are
chosen from among commoners to learn the Way of the White
Dragon. They cannot return to the Way of the Land unless they
are injured so that they are no longer able to fight or teach the
Way or until they retire with age. Most never return, staying on
the path of the warrior for the rest of their lives. As the shoguns
and daimyos are in constant need for more warriors to march
under their banners, potential recruits are actively sought from
the ranks of the Way of the Land in addition to the children
born to White Dragon families.

In theory, anyone of the Way of the White Dragon has the
potential to become a leader, daimyo or shogun. In practise,
though, it is much more likely that those positions are granted
to the sons of shoguns, daimyos and respected samurai than to
those who have risen from more humble origins.

Adventuring as Crimson military:
It is easy to see how someone from the Way of the White
Dragon might end up adventuring. They are the ones tasked to
fend off intruders or other menaces from the villages and cities
on their shogun or daimyo’s lands. They are also sometimes
sent out as diplomats to other countries, although even with the
recent changes in international relations this is a rare
occurrence. Only a few followers of the Way of the White
Dragon decide to see the world and leave the Crimson Empire
behind, for leaving without permission means exile, but with
their skills they can hire out as mercenaries abroad.

Suggested careers: 
Assassin, Gunner, Hunter, Law Enforcer,
Martial Artist, Officer, Scout, Soldier, Spy

Typical names: 
Names of the Crimson people vary a bit
depending on their Way as well as their native region. The
names of those living in the western part of the Empire have an
Indian sound to them, whereas the names in the east resemble
Chinese names. Traditional names in families of the Way of the
White Dragon are derived from words meaning power and luck
or derived from words meaning powerful elements or precious
items, and many translate their names for foreigners to tell its
meaning. Male names include Abjit, Chang, Gui, Nabhi, Pavak,
Peizhi, Weimin and Zihao. Female names include Abhaya,
Biyu, Cuifen, Juan, Mingzhu, Nirupa, Phiroza and Xiaoli.
Surnames vary a bit, but are usually short and have a meaning
of power or reign, or can be taken after the place or city where
the family hails from. Typical surnames are Chu, Guo, Hou and
Wang, or “of Fire” and “of Sun Dragon Fort”. For example
someone called Peizhi Hou might introduce himself also as
“The Respectable Nobleman” to a Victoran traveller.