CON +1

Initial skill ranks: Bargain 2, Animal Handling 1, Profession
(farmer) 1
15 CP can be used to buy ranks in the following skills:
Animal handling, Bargain, Brawl, Cooking, Craft (any), Listen,
Melee (Balanced), Melee (Powerful), Profession (farmer), Spot,
Survival, Track


Most people in the Crimson Empire are labourers, craftsmen
and farmers living in small villages and the handful of bigger
cities in the Empire. Their lifestyle is called the Way of the
Land, and their work forms the basis of the nation. They usually
lead simple lives, doing what needs to be done for the people to
get their daily food and the nation to run.
The quality of life of commoners depends mostly of the shogun
and daimyo ruling the land on which they live. Those who are
ruled by righteous leaders can get enough from their farms and
handiwork so as to get their daily bread and even save up for
something special. Not many are as lucky, for many lords
squeeze their subjects dry with heavy-handed taxes, leaving
them with barely enough to survive.
Most commoners live in villages run by an Elder. Elders are
wise men or women who guide the village people, giving
advice and teaching how to tend the land. The Elders and their
aides teach the children of their village, and most villagers of
Crimson Empire can read and know at least the basics of
writing and counting. Elders are also responsible for teaching
the lore and history of the Empire to the younger generations. 
In bigger cities the Elder tradition has practically died out, and
unless the ruling daimyo or shogun cares about children
receiving basic education and hires teachers to run schools,
education is left to the passing monks and the children’s
parents. Because of this, workers in big cities are usually less
educated than those in small villages.
As the followers of the Way of the White Dragon wield both
political power and weapons, and those of the Way of the Black
Dragon have the power of knowledge and the right to pass
judgment, those of the Way of the Land often find themselves
oppressed. Unless the land is ruled by a just shogun or daimyo,
or watched over by a sincere monk devoted to her duties, the
life of a commoner is one of constant struggle.

Adventuring as Crimson commoner:
Most commoners stick to their everyday duties, which don’t
include much excitement. Sometimes, though, a commoner
rises to take up a task far greater than is expected from one of
her station, and these brave commoners are often the ones
defending their villages against wild beasts and sometimes even
the armies of hostile daimyos. Some commoners leave their
fields or work behind to find more meaning to their lives,
sometimes even leaving the Crimson Empire behind.
Suggested careers: Artist, Craftsman, Hunter, Mechanic,
Ranger, Sailor, Servant

Typical names: Names of the Crimson people vary a bit
depending on their Way as well as their native region. The
names of those living in the western part of the Empire have an
Indian sound to them, whereas the names in the east resemble
Chinese names. It is typical of commoner names to be derived
from nature, like the names of plants, animals or geographic
formations like rivers and lakes. Names of male commoners
include Aiguo, Bohai, Jiang, Murali, Pankaj, Quan and Song.
Names of female commoners include Abani, Beli, Fang, Lin,
Payoja, Sejal and Yingtai. Surnames are usually short and also
derived from nature, like Fan, Kwan, Li and Pan.