Cost to play: 20 CP

STR -1, CON -1, CHA +2, EMP +1
Upgrade: Humanlike Skin with the Beautiful / Handsome
upgrade already included.

Initial skill ranks: Charm 3, Persuade 2, Athletics 1
10 CP can be used to buy ranks in the following skills:
Athletics, Bluff, Charm, Diplomacy, Dodge, Etiquette, First
Aid, Perform (Acting), Perform (Dancing), Persuade, Sense
Motive.

Models:
Rushworth CM-54M (civilian model, male)
Rushworth CM-54F (civilian model, female)
Colman Inc CLD-04M Doll, commonly referred to as “Louis”
or “Louis D-04”
Colman Inc CLD-04F Doll, commonly referred to as “Louisa”
or “Louisa D-04”

Early experiments with human-like automatons revealed that
although people generally prefer their artificial servants to share
some human-like features, trying to mimic a living being too
closely produced an unnatural and unnerving result. These
automaton prototypes could be made to look like humans, but
their behavior revealed them as artificial, and this lack of
symmetry caused considerable discomfort. Therefore, many
experts on automaton research concluded that it is best not to
try to mimic life too closely.
Recent breakthroughs in miniaturisation and synthetic materials
have, however, overcome this challenge, especially when
combined with the level of intelligence and artificial personality
provided by a CIC. Dolls not only look like humans but are
able to imitate their behavior, facial expressions and even
feelings accurately enough so as not to cause the feeling of
revulsion towards the unnatural that plagued the older models
with humanlike skin. This remarkable amount of detail is not
limited to their faces alone, but their entire bodies have been
constructed to resemble that of living people with precision that
would be considered quite unnecessary for other automatons.
Dolls can still be identified as artificial constructs on closer
inspection, but at a casual glance or during normal interaction
they can easily be mistaken for a living person.
A Doll's body is similar to that of the Butler's, but is covered
with rubber derivative skin detailed and shaped with underlying
silicone elements. The skin itself is almost like a full-body sock
split into segments, with seams covered with special putty glue.
Whenever a part of the Doll needs maintenance, the skin is
opened from these seams, providing access to the structures
beneath. The only major exception is on a Doll’s back, which
resembles a corset, providing easy access for routine
maintenance such as recharging and fluid replacement. As with
all automatons with the Humanlike Skin advantage, repairing a
Doll costs three times as much as it would cost to repair one
without the advantage.
Given that Dolls can pass as humans, they are used in highly
diverse roles, from maids and assistants to sex workers and
even diplomats. They also make excellent spies, since no
human can simply swap her face to a different one or replace
her voice with a new voice box.
However, some people still feel uneasy about Dolls. Whereas
some of these people have deeper philosophical resentment
towards what they see as mockery of life, some people are
simply disturbed by the idea that one cannot easily tell man and
machine apart. As a result, Dolls are occasionally treated with
unwarranted hostility and distrust, and some Dolls that have
gone rogue go to great lengths in order to conceal their true
nature.