CHA -2, REF +1; allocate +1 to one of the following: STR,
CON or DEX
Cold-blooded: The character’s body cannot control her body
temperature automatically, but needs external means to keep it
on optimised level. In very cold temperatures (around and
under -10°C if the character has clothing to keep himself
warm), she enters a comatose state. In cool temperatures she
acts sluggishly, whereas in warm temperatures she is nimbler
than normally. GM can grant a dracosaurian character a
modifier between -2 and +2 to DEX and REF related skills in
cold or hot conditions.

Dracosaurians receive a -3 penalty to listen rolls, a +2 bonus to
Spot rolls and a +2 bonus to track when able to use their sense
of smell.

All mutants have the social status: mutie disadvantage and
must purchase a mutant disadvantage worth at least 3 CP to
represent that no mutant is born perfect. Dracosaurians can
purchase deaf as a mutant disadvantage even though it is not
normally listed as one.
Dracosaurians gain 5 CP for purchasing mutant advantages.


Dracosaurians are lizard-like people originating from the
Pelethok island near Kheiman. Around a century ago there was
an explosion in a research laboratory that was examining the
extraordinary qualities of local lizards. After the explosion
many of the babies of the islanders were born with mutations,
and in a few decades almost half of the population had lizardlike
characteristics: scaly skin usually of brownish or greenish
hue, though other colors are not unheard of, excellent eyesight
with superb color vision, and atrophied ears, with many having
no ear lobes at all. Their eyes usually have slit pupils and are of
bright color, like golden yellow, red, orange, green or purple,
and they have two sets of eyelids, normal and semilunar. Most
of them have lizard-like tongues and an enhanced sense of
smell, and some of them even have lizard-like tails. Nowadays
some babies are born mostly resembling normal human
children and some are born badly disfigured, but most children
of dracosaurians are born as described above. Dracosaurians
can reproduce with humans. About half the time this results in
offspring with lizard-like characteristics, but half the time a
normal human child is born.