INT +1
Initial skill ranks: Survival 2, First Aid 1, Swim 1
15 CP can be used to buy ranks in the following skills:
Alchemy, Animal Handling, Climb, First Aid, Knowledge
(Botany), Knowledge (Mathematics), Knowledge (Zoology),
Language (Kheiman), Language (Victoran), Martial art
(Kheiman spear), Medicine and surgery, Melee (Powerful),
Sailing, Survival, Swim, Teaching, or to the Bilingual and
Animal Empathy advantages.

The island of Pelethok was formerly part of Kheiman, but when
the Free Islands was established, Pelethok joined to be part of
the new republic. The people of Pelethok never adopted the
Kheiman religion, and holding on to their old tradition of
revering their ancestors as lizard spirits during their long
history under Kheiman rule. When a research centre examining
the lizards native to the island’s was destroyed in a massive 
explosion and the resulting fallout started mutating those living
on the island, few in Kheiman felt any great sense of loss when
what they saw as an island full of pagan lizards decided to
secede.
The Kheiman had introduced their education system on the
islands long ago, so although the islanders lived in tribal
communities, leading simple lives in small villages, most of
them were literate and quite well learned. Many tribesfolk
participated in the research conducted on the island alongside
the Kheiman scientists before the catastrophe. After the
explosion that tore the research centre apart, it didn’t take long
for the remaining scientists and natives to join their forces and
use all the knowledge and resources they had to save as many
of the injured as they could. As a result, field medicine and
surgery have developed in great leaps on the island, and this has
also brought the natives of the island and the foreign scientists
together in an unprecedented way.
After the islanders finished rebuilding, many small research
centres were established in the small villages, collaborating to
learn more of the special wildlife and plants of the island and
especially their medical applications. Some people suggest that
the primary motivation for such intensive research is to stop the
deadly or malignant mutations from spreading, or even to find a
way to cure the dracosaurian mutation completely.
The people of Pelethok hold education in high esteem, and so
all children receive good basic education. Many islanders still
live in small tribal villages, getting their subsistence by fishing
and foraging as well as training the lizards and other animals
native to the island, although the number of those working in
the research centres is increasing rapidly. The republic of Free
Islands has taken interest in the medical research conducted on
Pelethok, and some private entrepreneurs see the research as a
potential investment as well. This has resulted in a peculiar
contrast between the tribesfolk and the scientists from civilised
lands, and the island society is in a constant state of change.
Not all of the people on the island are Dracosaurians, but less
than half of them are humans. This mutant background can be
taken by a human character as well, with the exception that
humans cannot take the Animal Empathy advantage.

Adventuring as Pelethok people:
After joining the Free Islands many of the people of Pelethok
have started traveling between the islands and even to the
mainland on missions of trade and science. Some
Dracosaurians have also joined mercenary parties for better
income and to see the world.

Suggested careers: Craftsman, Detective, Hunter, Inventor,
Mechanic, Mercenary, Physician, Pirate, Politician, Sailor,
Scholar

Typical names: Traditional Pelethok names are still commonly
used among the natives, but after joining the Free Islands, many
younger generation islanders have started to adopt the naming
traditions in use on other islands. See the Island Folk
background for examples. Traditional Pelethok male names
include Abebe, Chiraditzo, Emeka, Kamay, Mwenye and
Zuberi. Traditional female names include Alala, Dikeledi,
Hlengive, Jayde, Sethunya and Zola.