Any attribute +1
Initial skill ranks: Athletics 1, Negotiate 1, Persuade 1, Sailing
1, Sense Motive 1
15 CP can be used to buy ranks in the following skills:
Appraise, Athletics, Bluff, Brawl, Craft (any), Navigation,
Melee (any), Negotiate, Perform (Dancing), Persuade, Sailing,
Sailing (Airship), Sense Motive, Spot, Survival.

The Free Islands consists of a large group of islands, and each
island has its own traditions and customs. The Free Islands is a
rather young nation, and the only democratic one in Erthair.
Many things, like the education system, are still under
development, and this is a time of constant change on the Free
Islands. Many see it as change towards a better future.

The Free Islands has abolished the traditional class system, and
in theory, everyone is granted equal opportunity to affect their
own fates. Unfortunately, reality is often not quite as rosy, as
those without money or connections have little chance to
receive good education or attain a good standing in the society.
In the Free Islands every adult has the right to vote, including
women. Women are also granted equal opportunities to strive
for higher education and respected positions, giving them more
independence from their families from the men who tend to
control all aspects of life in other countries. On the other hand,
everyone is expected to make their own fame and fortune in the
Free Islands, and only those with the strength of character and
the will to work in order to reach their goals can truly achieve
success.

The Free Islands is a melting pot of people from every corner of
Erthair and as such, there is no uniform appearance to the
Island Folk. Only Crimson people are rare. Mutants also are
better tolerated here than in other nations of Erthair, especially
the Dracosaurians who are native to one of the islands. The one
thing that unites all the people of the Free Islands is their close
connection to the sea, and basically all Island Folk have the
skills necessary to navigate it. Also, recent political changes
have made trading one of the most important sources of income
for the people of the Free Islands, so diplomatic skills are
important and highly appreciated amongst the Island Folk.
Most people of the Free Islands make their living by fishing,
sea travel, ship crafting and farming and more recently as
factory workers, working on oil rigs and working for the
growing aircraft industry.
For further information on the individual islands, see their
descriptions.

Adventuring as Island Folk:
The people of Free islands have both many reasons and many
opportunities for adventuring. Many mercenary groups are
actively recruiting new members, as both the young nation and
the merchants operating in the area seek their services. There is
also much work at sea, and exploring all the islands now that
they are united under the same democratic flag is easier than
ever before. In the and of freedom and opportunity, adventuring
could be considered the highest calling for finding one’s
fortune.

Suggested careers: 
Artist, Assassin, Con Artist. Craftsman,
Entertainer, Gunner, Hunter, Mechanic, Mercenary, Merchant,
Officer, Politician, Rogue, Sailor, Scout, Spy, Warrior

Typical names: 
The northmost islands’ inhabitants have names
similar names to Wulffgartians and Victoran people. The
southern islands’ inhabitants have similar names to Kheiman
people or names specific to the Island Folk. Examples of the
southern islands men’s names are Cedro, Holokai, Jose, Kahuna
and Tua. Female names include Delfia, Luana, Shalonna, Takira
and Yali.