REF, WIT or CHA +1
Initial skill ranks: Sailing or Sailing (Airship) 2, Bluff 1, Brawl 1
15 CP can be used to buy ranks in the following skills:
Athletics, Bluff, Brawl, Craft (Gunsmithing), Handguns,
Intimidate, Melee (Finesse), Navigation, Persuade, Sailing,
Sailing (Airship), Sense Motive, Sleight of Hand, Spot, Stealth
The seas surrounding the Free Islands are crowded with traders
and travellers, as well as those making a living by preying on
them. Piracy is a growing threat for the development of the
region.

The republic of Free Islands, as well as some of the rich
merchants calling the Islands their home often hire the services
of privateers. Privateers are tasked to protect merchant ships
and other important vessels, and they are sometimes used to
reinforce the the national navy. Some privateers work as spies,
and some are even tasked to cut down competition by
sabotaging the ships and cargo of rival merchants and even
other nations. As ships themselves are valuable, sinking them or
slaughtering entire crews is not customary among those sailing
the seas of Erthair.This means here are often survivors left on
ships that have been targeted by hostile forces. Because of this,
it is often advantageous to hire a private naval force that cannot
be easily traced back to the employer whose good reputation
might otherwise suffer from sponsoring such actions.

Many pirate ships and communities are working for no master
other than themselves. They interpret the concepts of freedom
and opportunity as justification to sail the seas surrounding the
Free Islands and plunder ships, coastal villages and whatever
else presents itself as a suitable victim. It is said that for every
city in the Free Islands there are ten pirate havens, and although
this may be a bit of an overstatement, it isn’t far from truth. The
geography of the islands and the weak law enforcement system
mostly consisting of mercenaries make it easy to establish safe
havens all around the Islands, and illegal ports, docks, caverns
and inns litter the coastline. Some bands of pirates even operate
from one of the coastal villages, bringing part of their booty
back to the villagers, who are naturally fiercely protective of
their adventurous compatriots. Also, the line between pirate
and privateer is often one drawn in the water, and many
privateers work as free agents on the side.

Nowadays airships and even airplanes are used by some
privateers and pirates. Although most of their forces still utilise
normal seafaring vessels, the support provided by a single
airship or airplane can give them the extra edge that can turn
the tide against an otherwise superior force.
The life of a child born to pirate or privateer community is
harsh compared to many other children in Erthair, but blessed
with considerable personal freedom They may live in the
villages or island communities collaborating with the pirates, or
even on a pirate ship. They learn a lot about seafaring, brawling
and fighting, bluffing and holding their ground at a very young
age. The life they lead is tough and is regulated by traditions
and customs that bear little resemblance to the rules of a normal
society and that are older than the laws of Free Islands. Some
are taught to read and write, but most learn the practical skills
needed to become pirates themselves.

Adventuring as a Pirate:
It is not hard to imagine how someone who has been raised
amongst pirates ends up adventuring. She might end up as part
of a pirate or privateer crew herself, or her skills as seamanship
and subterfuge could be beneficial in the service of a mercenary
party.

Suggested careers: 
Assassin, Con Artist, Gunner, Martial Artist,
Mechanic, Mercenary, Officer, Personal Entertainer, Pirate,
Rogue, Sailor, Scout, Spy

Typical names: 
People from a Pirate background come from
same roots as Island Folk, they have very similar names too.
See Island folk.