CON +1, CHA -1
Initial skill ranks: None.
10 CP can be used to buy ranks in any combat skills except
Martial Arts other than Wolfbite and Northern Bladesmastery.


The Goliaths born in laboratories are trained to be
warmachines, not people. They have no real childhood, as they
are trained to become soldiers from infancy. All their basic
needs are well covered, and it is made sure that they are raised
in the best possible environment to grow physically healthy and
strong. Different sport activities are introduced to them at a
young age. Goliaths do not have parents. Their teachers,
commanders, trainers, physicians and scientists are their
mothers and their fathers. They aren’t treated as individuals but
as members of a unit, and the most specialised goliath units are
usually trained for their function together from early childhood.
Goliath training consists of not only combat training but also
psychological training, how to endure pain and torture, how to
act under mental stress, how to follow orders and how to kill
without thinking. One of the goals of their training is to strip
them of unnecessary feelings, such as empathy and compassion.
They are taught to think more like machines than humans.
Goliaths don’t have a real society or culture of their own. They
are part of the Wulffgart army. They are members of their unit,
which is the closest thing to family they know. Now that the 80
Year War is over, many Goliaths have been retired from active
duty, and their integration to the Wulffgart society has started.
Considering their background, normal life is something new
and strange to Goliaths. Those Goliaths who are now a part of
the society have to learn completely new ways of thinking and
interacting with people. Most Goliaths, whose mental faculties
were never intended for understanding abstract concepts or
absorbing new information, are ill equipped to face such
challenges, and adapting to normal society is very difficult for
most of them. Many Goliaths are also mentally traumatised by
their past, despite the Wulffgartian military leaders and
scientists claiming otherwise.

Adventuring as Goliath:
Many Goliaths still serve in the ranks of the Wulffgart army.
Those that have chosen a different path for their future are often
recruited by mercenary groups. For most Goliaths, fighting is
the only life they have ever known, and it takes a very rare
individual to even consider anything else

Suggested careers: Gunner, Hunter, Law Enforcer, Martial
Artist, Mercenary, Ranger, Scout, Soldier, Warrior

Typical names: Goliath’s are usually given Wulffgartian names.
See Wulffgartian backgrounds for reference.