CON, INT or EMP +1
Initial skill ranks: Craft (any) or Profession (any) 2, Appraise 1,
Persuade 1
15 CP can be used to buy ranks in the following skills:
Appraise, Brawl, Clockwork, Cooking, Craft (any), Negotiate,
Drive, Locksmithing, Mechanics, Melee (Powerful), Persuade,
Profession (any), Ride.

Hanseburg is known for its craftsmanship, design, inventions
and top class modern steam technology. This naturally creates a
need for not only lots of factory workers and miners, but also
for skilled crafters, engineers and designers. Unlike in many
other countries, these people are not disparaged by the betteroff
Hanseburgians. It is the fruits of their labour that brings the
merchants and nobles their fortunes, and they are appreciated
accordingly.

Hanseburg is home to many of the finest experts on both the old
and traditional crafts like shipbuilding, and new branches of
technology, such as steam machinery. The youngsters of the
worker class have a plethora of opportunities to train
themselves to become professionals in different physical or
crafting careers, and there are many opportunities to rise in rank
on almost every career. For example a skilled miner in
Hanseburg is likely to become a mine manager or mining craft
engineer at a later point of her career.

The craftsmanship in Hanseburg is renowned for its quality,
but this reputation is not easy to maintain. Hard training and
hard work are needed to meet the expectations. As the
craftsmen themselves take great pride in their work, long
working hours are customary, and not much time is left for
pursuing leisurely hobbies or spending time with family. The
workers make decent living with their work, and the most
skilled and well-known can often even afford a rather luxurious
life during their evening years.

The farmers of Hanseburg also belong to the worker class.
Although life in the country requires equally hard work and has
fewer opportunities to gain wealth, it is much more relaxed and
less stressful than that of the craftsmen in the cities. Although
large parts of the Hanseburgian landscape are dominated by tall
mountains, most of the land is fertile earth suitable for fields
and farming. Hanseburgian cheese, bread and cakes are well
known for their deliciousness and exported to other countries as
well.

Of course, not everyone manages to pursue a successful career
even in Hanseburg. Those who abandon the traditional craft of
their families or simply fail to be successful in it are easily left
without the support of their family. Those who are unable to
adopt another respectable profession can easily fall through the
cracks of society and end up on the streets. These people often
end up doing shady and illegal jobs, the unspoken darker side
of Hanseburg.

Adventuring as Hanseburgian worker:
Most Hanseburgian workers rarely participate in adventures
other than selling their wares. Some craftsmen, though, would
go to any length to acquire rare or exotic materials for their art.
Hanseburgian mechanics and engineers are often found
travellling with mercenary or military groups to maintain their
automatons and vehicles.

Suggested careers: 
Butler, Craftsman, Gunner, Hunter, Inventor,
Law Enforcer, Mechanic, Mercenary, Musketeer, Ranger,
Rogue, Sailor, Scout, Servant, Soldier

Typical names: 
Hanseburgian names derive from both
Wulffgartian and Victoran origins. There are also names
specific to Hanseburg. Hanseburgian worker male names
include Elias, Fritz, Joel, Luis, Thoman and Walter and female
names include Alina, Claudia, Emma, Heidi, Leonie and Nadia.
Typical surnames include Accola, Benziger, Gaugler and
Reichling. 