Cost to play: 20CP
DEX, CHA or EMP +1
Initial skill ranks: Appraise 2, Charm 2, Negotiate 2, Etiquette 1.
Advantage: Noble, Hanseburg
Starting wealth level: Drifter. This can be further raised with CP
during character creation.
15 CP can be used to buy ranks in the following skills:
Appraise, Art (any), Charm, Etiquette, Knowledge (Heraldry),
Language (Victoran), Language (Wulffgartian), Martial Arts
(Fencing), Martial Arts (Hanseburgian Musketeer Fencing),
Melee (Finesse), Negotiate, Perform (Dancing), Perform
(Oratory), Persuade, Ride, or to improve the starting wealth
level.

Hanseburgian nobles are the rulers of Hanseburg. The nation is
governed by three noble houses, called the Royal Families. The
great influence of Hanseburgian nobility is not limited to their
own country, as many of them have diplomatic contacts with
the neighbouring countries. They also have close contacts with
Hanseburgian merchants, who are vital to the continuous wealth
of their country.

Most Hanseburgian noble families are very wealthy. Although
some of them don’t own large amounts of land, they have often
invested heavily in Hanseburgian craftsmanship and trade,
earning them a share of the profits. Hanseburg is a small
country and her nobles are well known by the common folk, so
noble families pay close attention to maintaining their
reputation. Even the children of noble families are expected to
behave themselves with dignity and pride.

The noble houses of Hanseburg hold education in high esteem.
Hanseburg has some private schools of great renown that are
mostly used to school the children of the noble families, and
some families even send their children to the greatest private
schools in Victora to study. Skilled governesses are often hired
to teach younger children until they are old enough to be sent to
school.

Most of the noble families live secure lives inside their castles
and manors. Their daily lives consist of diplomacy and
representing their house. Many nobles are also interested in
influencing the business relations of the nation and maintain
close contact with the merchants of Hanseburg. Knowledge of
trade is considered so important that some noble children are
even sent to learn business skills under the tutelage of one of
the renowned merchant families.

Adventuring as Hanseburgian noble:
Diplomatic relations with other countries, especially Victora
and Wulffgart, are very important to Hanseburg. Hanseburgian
nobles often act as diplomats, travelling abroad to represent
Hanseburg and their families. Some nobles even search for
adventures themselves, working as mercenaries.

Suggested careers: 
Banker, Con Artist, Inventor, Journalist,
Lawyer, Musketeer, Officer, Physician, Politician, Scholar, Spy,
Wyrodian Priest

Typical names: 
Hanseburgian names derive from both
Wulffgartian and Victoran origins. There are also names
specific to Hanseburg. In addition to names common to
craftsmen and merchants, there are some names that are usually
associated with nobility. Male noble names Evald, Florian,
Gilbert and Lionel and female names Lisabetha, Silvia and
Veronica. Only the three Royal families are allowed to use the
prefix ”de”: de Schulz, de Colman and de Weissager. Other
noble families’ surnames resemble the names of other
Hanseburgian people. Examples of such last names are
Breneman, Ellenberger, Gremminger, Pfenninger and
Scherzinger. 