“Hanseburgian craftsmen boast with their skillful works and the
nobles boast with the rich nation. But should they ever forget
that it is the merchants who sell the craftsmen’s works and
collect the riches for the country, the nation will fall.” - a head
of a Hanseburgian merchant family


WITS +1
Initial skill ranks: Appraise 2, Bargain 1, Diplomacy 1
15 CP can be used to buy ranks in the following skills:
Appraise, Bargain, Bluff, Cooking, Craft (any), Diplomacy,
Etiquette, Intimidate, Martial Arts (Fencing), Mechanics, Melee
(Finesse), Persuade, Profession (any), Ride, or to improve the
Starting wealth level.


The merchants of Hanseburg have played an important role in
shaping their nation, exporting goods from Hanseburg and
carrying the gold back to their home nation. They are well
known for their bargaining skills, especially in the neighbouring
countries of Wulffgart and Victora.
Due to their place in society, merchants have close connections
with both the workers and nobles of Hanseburg, buying, selling
and delivering goods across the country. Not all Hanseburgian
merchants are equal in status or wealth, though: some operate
from small town shops selling basic goods to commoners, while
the wealthiest and most successful entrepreneurs deliver goods
to kings and emperors, making Hanseburg famous all over the
world.
Hanseburgian merchants need skill in diplomacy as well as
bargaining. Many opportunities for careers and travelling are
open to those born to the merchant class. Even the smallest
merchant families tend to be well connected to the craftsmen
and nobles in their operating area, and the greatest merchant
families own fleets and caravans that can cross the world
carrying fortunes in goods. Few places are out of reach of a
determined Hanseburgian merchant. Their success and
reputation makes them ideal targets for con artists, and they
need to be constantly wary of business opportunities that seem
too good to be true.
The children of Hanseburgian merchant families learn to
appraise and calculate everything at a young age, counting
every trinket and every favour. Everything has a price, and a
skilled merchant is able to increase her profit margins while
still making the customers feel like the winners in the bargain.
Also, the merchant families of high reputation often participate
in the social events of nobility, so etiquette and social skills are
drilled into the merchant families’ youngsters.

Adventuring as Hanseburgian merchant:
Hanseburgian merchants enjoy world wide fame, and even
though some of them rarely travel beyond their home city,
many take long journeys abroad to conduct their business. This
allows them to see the wonders of the great cities and exotic
places of the world - and perhaps find new ways to profit from
them.

Suggested careers: Artist, Banker, Butler, Con Artist, Detective,
Inventor, Journalist, Lawyer, Merchant, Musketeer, Physician,
Scholar, Wyrodian Priest

Typical names: Hanseburgian names derive from both
Wulffgartian and Victoran origins. There are also names
specific to Hanseburg. The first names of merchants are rather
similar to Hanseburgian worker names. Well known
Hanseburgian merchant family names are Grey and Weltner.
The prefix “Van den”, meaning “of something”, is sometimes
used with surnames, e.g. “Van den Berg” , “of the mountain”.
