Cost to play: 5 CP
STR +3, CON +3, DEX -2, REF -2, CHA -1, EMP -2
Initial STR and CON must be at least 12.
Upgrade: Medium Plating, AV 4
Gorilla punch: Heavy worker fist damage deals d6+1 points of
damage. (x CP)
Forklift: Heavy worker can lift and carry three times the normal
amount for its STR+CON.
10 CP can be used to buy ranks in the following skills: Craft
(any), Mechanics, Melee (Powerful), Search, Spot, Steam
Engineering, or to the Upgraded Automaton advantage.
Heavy Worker automatons cannot be created or upgraded with
the Humanlike skin advantage.

As the use of automatons for manual labour became more
common, it was a natural part of progress that they be used for
increasingly heavy duties, so that their human masters would
not need to strain themselves except to occasionally replace
worn or broken parts to their workers. This industrial evolution
brought into being Heavy Worker automatons.

Heavy Workers are, in an essence, a forklift and its operator
combined into one, super-powerful package. Where most
automatons utilise leather straps and finely tuned clockwork
mechanisms for limb movement, Heavy workers run with steel
chains moved by heavy cogs. The trade-off is obvious; Heavy
Workers may be slower and clumsier, but they more than make
up for it in terms of pure strength and endurance.

Heavy Workers still retain a humanoid appearance, but due to
their heavy industrial purpose, most of their physical
proportions are highly exaggerated. Seeing a silhouette of a
Heavy Worker in the dark would first give an onlooker the
impression of an enormous gorilla rather than a human being.
Upgrading a Heavy Worker with humanlike skin would make
no sense, and they generally look rigid, industrial and
functional. Still, nothing prevents the owner from fitting them
with decorations as detailed and elaborate as those of any other
service automaton.

Heavy Workers are largely considered to be pure workforce,
heavy-lifting beasts of burden and nothing more. However,
while they might otherwise be considered the lowest class of
automatons, they are physically menacing enough to keep
attitudes towards them somewhat civil. Also, while their
borderline ape-like frame may make them seem dumb as a box
of hammers, in truth they are no stupider than other automaton
types.