Humans receive 10 extra CP for purchasing skills and
advantages from their Background during character creation.

Humans come from various backgrounds and nationalities, so
their appearance and style varies widely, from the tall muscular
Wulffgartian in his gray greatcoat to the tender Crimson lady in
her colorful kimono. Humans are by far the dominant race of
Erthair, as mutants are descended from humans and automatons
are created by humans. Because of this, many humans consider
themselves as the only “proper people” on Erthair. Almost all
people of power in Erthair are humans, from the leaders of
nations to most of the people of world-wide fame. And no
matter what their appearance or social class is, a human is most
likely receive at least a little better treatment as an individual
than mutants or automatons. With their special position on
Erthair, humans have more opportunities to learn things at
younger age, more places in which to study, and more people to
teach them. As a result, human characters get extra character
points for their Background skills.

Human civilization has spread aeons ago across the whole
continent, and they have six known nations: Wulffgart,
Hanseburg and Victora in the north, Free islands in the west and
Kheiman and the Crimson Empire in the south. As each nation
has its own customs and culture, their people can differ from
each other significantly, both in appearance and in ways of
thinking and behavior. People of the northern part of the
continent are usually tall and fair-skinned. Their ways and
history lean on the northern religion, Wyrodianism. The modern
Wulffgart is very militant, which is reflected in the behaviour of
Wulffgartian people, whereas Victora and Hanseburg are
strongly feudal nations, with old noble families and strong class
systems. People of the south are usually darker of skin and
shorter than people of the north, but that’s where their common
features end: Kheiman and the Crimson Empire differ from
each other almost as much as they differ from the nations in the
north. Kheiman is a very religious nation, their religion
defining almost every aspect of life. The Crimson Empire has
been secluded from other nations for a long time. The lives of
the Crimson people are guided by their philosophy. Finally, the
Free Islands are a melting pot of people from almost all
backgrounds, humans from both the north and the south, rich
and poor, even mutants - everyone is welcome there. It is the
only democratic nation on Erthair and it is probably the only
place where someone not born a human - a mutant - has a
chance to influence the important decisions of their nation.
Mutants

All mutant races of Erthair have mutated from humans at some
point in history. Some mutant races have existed for centuries,
some only for the length of a single generation. The old mutant
races, Beastfolk, Sylphs and Kharzul Dwarves, have been
mutated by a natural mutagen, such as a virus, radiation or
chemical reagent that has occurred in their environment
naturally. They have been seen as monsters and evil spirits
throughout most of their existence, and have been cast away
from human society until recently. The newer mutant races,
such as Goliaths and Dracosaurians, have been created by
human-made mutagens, either purposefully or by accident. This
has increased the awareness of mutant origins, which has
slightly improved the status of mutants as part of society.
Mutants still carry a stigma, and most humans consider mutants
“lower class people” - if they consider them people at all. This
is why every mutant character has the social status: mutie
disadvantage (CP already calculated in the cost of the race). No
mutant is born perfect, and all of them have some physical
hindrances related to their mutation, such as abnormal limbs or
impaired senses. Each mutant must purchase a mutant
disadvantage worth at least 3 CP to represent this (but the
character gains CP for this normally, just like for any other
disadvantage).