INT +1
Initial skill ranks: Profession: Mining 2, Craft (any) 1, Craft
(Blacksmithing or Gunsmithing) 1
10 CP can be used to buy ranks in the following skills: Bargain,
Brawl, Climb, Clockwork, Cooking, Craft (any), Drive,
Explosives & Demolitions, Intimidate, Locksmithing, Long
guns, Martial Art (Wolfbite), Melee (Balanced), Melee
(Powerful), Mechanics, Profession (Mining), Steam
Engineering


Kharzul Dwarves must also choose one of the Wulffgart
Military Service background options.
The Kharzul Dwarves originate from the mining town of
Kharzul in Wulffgart. Unlike most mutants, they are generally
accepted as members of Wulffgartian society, as the nation’s
war industry is dependent on the minerals and inventions
produced in the town of Kharzul. Some of the best military
mechanics come from Kharzul, and the Dwarves are reputed to
have created the finest weapons and warmachines in Wulffgart.
Life in Kharzul is somewhat secluded. Although the town is
open for trade and traffic, no visitor ever stays long, in fear of
contracting whatever causes the mutation. Many Kharzul
Dwarves tend to be gruff and distant by their nature, which isn’t
exactly helping to attract newcomers to the town. The Kharzul
Dwarves themselves do not seem to be bothered by this,
though, as long as the equipment and materials they require are
brought to the town and they can sell and deliver their products
to the buyers. Perhaps unsurprisingly, their most important
customer is the Wulffgart army.
Kharzul Dwarves who are born in the town learn much about
mining and weapons crafting at an early age simply by
following the everyday life around them. There are many
possibilities for apprenticeship in the mining, gunsmithing and
steam crafting industries. Kharzul Dwarves also love good food
and strong brews, and both their brewery products and their
appetite for them enjoy worldwide fame.
Because Kharzul is part of Wulffgart, the Dwarves must serve
in the Wulffgartian military. Choose one of the Wulffgart
Military Service options explained in the Wulffgart
background. Most Dwarves do their period of service in
Kharzul’s own military base, where most of the personnel are
Dwarves.

Adventuring as Kharzul dwarf:
Many Kharzul dwarves serve in the Wulffgartian army, some of
them traveling around Wulffgart during their service. Some
Kharzul dwarves get bored of their secluded lives in Kharzul,
whereas some leave for more personal reasons. It is not
uncommon these days to see rather many Kharzul Dwarves
travelling with mercenary parties, working as craftsmen and
engineers abroad or serving as escorts to merchants.

Suggested careers: Banker, Craftsman, Gunner, Inventor,
Journalist, Law Enforcer, Mechanic, Mercenary, Merchant,
Officer, Politician, Ranger, Soldier

Typical names: Kharzul Dwarf names are usually similar to
Wulffgartians, but sometimes resemble Hanseburgian or
northern Victoran names. See those backgrounds for reference.