STR, CON or INT +1
Initial skill ranks: Craft or Profession (any) 2, Knowledge
(Kheiman religion) 1, Art (any) 1
15 CP can be used to buy ranks in the following skills: Art
(any), Athletics, Brawl, Craft (any), Dodge, Mechanics,
Perform (Dancing), Persuade, Profession (any), Survival.

The most populous class in Kheiman is the worker class.
Workers are the manual labourers of Kheiman: farmers,
craftsmen, miners and factory workers, to mention but a few.
Both the physically strong and the nimble handed can find
suitable work as a member of the worker class.

As everyone in Kheiman receives basic education, being a
worker in Kheiman is not a sign of stupidity or ignorance. It
was simply determined that the person’s strength did not lie in
martial prowess or higher spiritual or scientific thinking, but in
the skills necessary for building the base of the society. Almost
everyone in Kheiman is literate and knows the basics of
mathematics and other sciences, even the humble workers.

Most Kheiman workers, such as farmers, miners and factory
workers, get a low pay for their work, and so their lifestyle is
simple. They usually don’t lack any of the basic needs: they get
enough to eat, a roof on their heads and basic clothing with the
money they earn, and the Kheiman state church sponsors their
hobbies and health care. On the other hand, they don’t have
money for luxuries, such as a big house, fine clothing, jewellery
or traveling.

Some specialised workers, whose skills are in high
demand, can actually earn even more than some of the clergy.
These include skilled artisans making weapons, jewellery or art
objects for the rich, and renowned artists who decorate the
insides of the temples and houses of rich clergy with paintings.

Still, most of the workers in Kheiman do hard, physical work,
and even with the advanced medicine and science of Kheiman,
their life spans are usually noticeably shorter than people of the
clergy class. And once a person has been chosen to be a worker
in their childhood, she remains a worker for the rest of her life.

Most workers are stuck with the career chosen for them as
children, unwilling or unable to pursue other trades even within
the limits of the working class. Furthermore, should a dispute
arise between a worker and a member of another class,
especially the clergy, the state church would be unlikely to
resolve the matter in favour of the worker. Because of this,
some workers, especially among the younger generation, have
begun to question the traditional ways and class system in
Kheiman.

Adventuring as Kheiman worker:
Most Kheiman workers have jobs that do not allow for much
time for adventuring or travelling. Some brave ones not content
with their lives abandon their jobs and Kheiman altogether and
become adventurers, mercenaries or explorers in other
countries. A handful of workers, such as some artisans and
artists, have jobs that actually require them to travel and
adventure in order to find new materials and inspiration which
they can implement into their works.

Suggested careers: 
Artist, Craftsman, Hunter, Mechanic,
Mercenary, Merchant, Servant