INT, WIT, EMP or CHA +1
Initial skill ranks: Knowledge: Kheiman religion 2, Negotiate 1,
Language: Kheiman 1.
15 CP can be used to buy ranks in the following skills:
Alchemy, Art (any), Clockwork, Negotiate, Etiquette, First Aid,
Knowledge (any), Law (Kheiman), Leadership, Mechanics,
Medicine and surgery, Persuade, Teaching, or to improve the
Starting wealth level.

The children with intellectual tendencies, high social
intelligence and skills in science are chosen to the Kheiman
clergy class. All the scientific knowledge and wisdom in
Kheiman comes from the clergy. Members of the clergy fill a
range of professions: physicians, judges, engineers, scientists of
many areas and teachers, to mention but a few.

The education of children chosen for the clergy class is very
different from those of the worker and warrior classes, whose
education focuses on the practical knowledge and skills needed
for their future occupation. Instead, clergy students spend
several years in theoretical classes and lectures about Kheiman
religion and various fields of science. It is only when they are
close to adulthood that they are chosen for specific professions
and start studying the practical skills needed in their chosen
duty. Unlike those of the worker and warrior classes, young
members of the clergy are allowed to affect the choice of
profession they’ll be taking as adults, at least to some extent.

Some of the young clergymen and -women are chosen to
become temple priests. All members of the clergy have the right
and duty to teach the Kheiman religion and spread its word to
the people of Kheiman, and outside Kheiman when needed, but
the temple priests work as the Pharaoh’s messengers and
deliver the word of the deities for other people to hear and
learn. They are the highest political power in Kheiman after the
Pharaoh himself. The priests are also the ones who choose the
paths of life for Kheiman children, usually after consulting the
teachers and tutors of the children for guidance.

Other members of the clergy class hold important positions in
the society as well. Judges and lawyers work in close contact
with the priests, as they execute the laws of Kheiman. Teachers
are in charge of educating the Kheiman children and
youngsters, and so they have a very important task considering
the future of the nation. Scientists and engineers have an
important part in the development of the nation, both for
civilian life and the army. Physicians have an important role in
the development and application of medical sciences for the
good of the nation and Kheiman people. Finally, although this
happens rarely, sometimes skilled mechanics are selected from
among the worker class to study further and become members
of the clergy class as engineers.

The life as member of the clergy class is usually quite
comfortable, if demanding at the same time. Most of them can
secure a comfortable home, rather comfortable lifestyle and
some luxuries for their families, and some of them live lives of
abundance. Their work is mostly safe and physically
undemanding, and they can expect to live longer lives than
those of the warrior and worker classes. The clergy class is
revered by most Kheiman people, which gives them both
freedom and responsibilities. All of those in clergy are expected
to do their work with exemplary skill, consideration and
dignity.

The priesthood regulates the science, research and teaching in
Kheiman very carefully. All of the clergy are considered to
work for the nation and the church at least to some extent, and
leaking information to outsiders is considered criminal. The cooperation
and exchange of information with other nations is
very strictly regulated. Some scientists see this as detrimental to
modern science, and it is rumoured that some opinions against
these regulations have been voiced - and possibly silenced -
from within the ranks of the clergy as well.

Adventuring as Kheiman clergy:
There are many reasons for a member of the Kheiman clergy to
go adventuring. A scientist could search for ideas or ingredients
for a new invention or research, a priest might be spreading the
word of the Kheiman religion or working under cover on a
quest for vital information for the church, or a physician could
be assigned to take care of the well-being of an adventuring
group working in Kheiman. Members of the clergy are unlikely
to leave Kheiman for good for the simple desire for adventure,
but those who do leave, perhaps finding the strict restrictions on
science too limiting, can find work in various positions in
mercenary groups or even in the service of other nations.

Suggested careers: 
Banker, Inventor, Journalist, Lawyer,
Mechanic, Merchant, Officer, Physician, Politician, Scholar,
Spy