Life in Kheiman is strongly influenced and regulated by their
religion. As the state and the church in Kheiman are virtually
one entity, the laws and traditions in Kheiman are mostly those
enacted by the church.
Kheiman has an expansive education system, and so every child
in Kheiman receives basic education and the opportunity to
educate themselves further in some way. The literacy rate in
Kheiman is the highest among the countries in Erthair.
Kheiman people are divided into three classes: workers,
warriors and clergy. A Kheiman child’s social class is chosen
during her basic education, and the rest of her life is regulated
by this decision. Often a child follows the career of one of her
parents, but sometimes a completely different career is chosen
if the child’s physical or mental abilities suggest that another
path would be more suitable for her. All classes have their poor
and wealthy members, although poverty is more common
among the worker class than among the clergy.
Kheiman medical science is possibly the most advanced in
Erthair, and even the poor can receive medical care sponsored
by the state. The state also sponsors opportunities to pursue
leisure activities, granting many options even to those without
wealth. On the other hand, people in Kheiman do not have real
freedom with their lives, their class and the church regulating
most of their normal, daily lives. Recently, hushed rumours
speaking about rebellion in Kheiman have started spreading,
voices that speak of freedom to choose one’s own destiny and
even voices against the God-Emperor’s rule.
Kheiman people are usually shorter than Victoran and
Wulffgartian people. They have tanned or dark skin, ranging
from a tanned bronze hue in northern Kheiman to the ebony
black skin of the people of the southern jungles and savannas.
Kheiman people have dark brown or black hair. Their eye color
ranges from copper to very dark brown, almost black.
Typical names in Kheiman:
As Kheiman classes aren’t divided solely based on family
background, naming conventions between classes are mostly
similar. Most names end in consonants. Many of the names are
derived from religious bases; the suffix “es” means a follower
of a deity. Male names include Aetes, Arumes, Canopus,
Kafhutes, Hagiel, Nekhartemes, Sefkh, Sevekthat and
Tiumautef. Female names include Bektehat, Hentateth, Ibynes,
Neith, Omorosises (or Omoroses), Tibes, Teiharset and
Sanbises. Combination names, like Neith-Ibynes, are also
common. The surname is usually a patronym derived from the
father’s name with the suffix “i”, e.g. Hagien Arumesi.
Sometimes the city or region from which the person hails from
is included in the name as well.