STR +1
Initial skill ranks: 
Melee (Powerful) 2, Knowledge (Kheiman
religion) 1, Martial Arts (Kheiman spear) 1
15 CP can be used to buy ranks in the following skills:
Athletics, Block, Brawl, Craft (Blacksmithing), Gunsmithing,
Law (Kheiman), Leadership, Listen, Long Guns, Martial Arts
(Kheiman spear), Ride, Spot, Survival, Throw, Melee
(Powerful).


The people chosen for warrior class are those whose physical
abilities, courage and ability to follow orders stood out during
childhood. The training of warriors is tough, and after basic
training they receive specialised training for a variety of duties
in the army and the guard.
Due to the emphasis on physical abilities, most of Kheiman
warriors are men, but female warriors are not unheard of.
Warriors are usually trained in groups, and they receive training
in survival skills, hunting, trapmaking and many other skills
needed when travelling in the wilds in addition to their combat
training. Also, depending of their position and rank, some
warriors receive training in mechanical skills or additional
training in leadership skills, and some of them are highly
trained in social skills.
Kheiman didn’t take an active part in the 80 Year War, but they
still maintain a large army and guard force. The army responds
directly to the church, and only the highest priests have more
power and influence than the highest ranking commanders of
the Kheiman army in matters of internal or external security of
the country and church. The guard forces are divided into the
Guardians of the Law, who are subordinate to the church and
acts as the police force of Kheiman, and private guard forces
who serve as protectors and bodyguards of people in high
positions, mostly rich clergymen.
The life of an average Kheiman warrior is secure with enough
pay to have a comfortable home, enough food and minor
luxuries. Some of the personal guards of rich, high ranking
Kheiman clergymen or the high ranking officers of the
Kheiman army can be very wealthy. Kheiman warriors are
encouraged to pursue physical hobbies, and some of them have
made themselves famous in sports activities worldwide. On the
other hand the life of a Kheiman warrior can meet a premature
end due to the perils that come with a dangerous work. As
Kheiman soldiers were chosen for the duty instead of becoming
warriors of their own volition, some of them are unhappy with
their lives dominated by violence and peril. Kheiman warriors
are very much at the mercy of their commanders, be they
members of the clergy or superior officers. They are expected
to follow orders, even the obviously unethical or unwise ones,
and disobedience is a punishable crime that carries the
possibility of a death sentence.

Adventuring as Kheiman warrior:
Kheiman warriors are natural adventurers. She could serve as a
protector of a Kheiman party, or she could be on a mission, sent
by the church or other employee to solve a crime or mystery of
as an explorer. Some warriors leave Kheiman permanently and
can easily find work as mercenaries abroad.

Suggested careers: 
Assassin, Detective, Gunner, Hunter, Law
Enforcer, Martial Artist, Mechanic, Mercenary, Officer, Ranger,
Scout, Soldier, Spy

Typical names in Kheiman:
As Kheiman classes aren’t divided solely based on family
background, naming conventions between classes are mostly
similar. Most names end in consonants. Many of the names are
derived from religious bases; the suffix “es” means a follower
of a deity. Male names include Aetes, Arumes, Canopus,
Kafhutes, Hagiel, Nekhartemes, Sefkh, Sevekthat and
Tiumautef. Female names include Bektehat, Hentateth, Ibynes,
Neith, Omorosises (or Omoroses), Tibes, Teiharset and
Sanbises. Combination names, like Neith-Ibynes, are also
common. The surname is usually a patronym derived from the
father’s name with the suffix “i”, e.g. Hagien Arumesi.
Sometimes the city or region from which the person hails from
is included in the name as well