REF +1
Initial skill ranks: Athletics 2, Climb 1, Survival 1
15 CP can be used to buy ranks in the following skills: Animal
Handling, Archery, Athletics, Brawl, Climb, Listen, Melee
(Balanced), Perform (Singing), Sense Motive, Spot, Survival,
Stealth, Throw or to the Acute Sense of Direction and Animal
Empathy advantages.


On the slopes of the tallest of the northern mountains of
Crimson Empire live the secluded Sylphs, whose culture can be
traced back centuries. Sylphs have a unique rapport with the
nature surrounding them. Sylphs live as hunter-gatherers or
raising herds of goats or flocks of local birds, usually geese.
Some Sylphs have the ability to communicate with avians, so
they do not keep the birds caged, but live side by side with
them, and the avians follow the village they are bound to.
Sylphs help the birds with foraging and defend them from
predators, and in return use their eggs and feathers. Sylph life is
very closely bound to the cycles of year and the barren nature
of the mountains. They still venerate the Crimson Empire
Philosophy, but with an added emphasis on the importance of
nature as part of the philosophy, and they see themselves as
spiritually connected to the animals, plants and the rock of the
mountains themselves.
Sylphs call the small nomadic groups they live in ‘villages’.
One village usually consists of around two dozen adult Sylphs,
their children and their herds. A village usually stops in one
place for a few months, letting their herds rest and graze while
the hunters and gatherers travel further from their home
foraging other goods and sometimes trade with other villages,
and then the whole village moves on again. As Sylphs as a race
are few in numbers, most villages know each other and are
connected to each other via bonds of marriage. Due to the harsh
environment of their homelands, Sylphs learn to be sure footed
and agile from a very young age. They have developed both the
optimal physiology and the skills necessary to climb the
mountain sides as easily as the goats they herd.
Although most people would consider the Sylph way of living
quite primitive, Sylphs do have their own higher culture too.
Writing is always taught to new generations by older Sylphs. Asthe villages are constantly on the move and the distances
between them are long, it is important to be able to leave
written messages behind or let carrier birds take them to other
villages. This tradition is seen as supporting the theory that
Sylphs have mutated from the people of Crimson Empire in
ancient times. Sylphs are renowned for their beautiful singing
voices, and sometimes travelers in the mountains can hear
haunting echoes of the travel songs sung by the Sylph villagers.
Song is part of the normal daily duties, long travels, as well as
philosophical and spiritual growth in Sylph culture.
Sylphs have ritual places where several villages gather in
certain times for yearly rites, marriage bonds and other
celebrations. These places are covered with intricately detailed
stone paintings and carvings. The best known of these places is
the Circle of Elements in the Valley of Silvermist, and it is said
to be even older than the Sylphs themselves. All Sylph villages
gather there for their spring and autumn celebrations. Other
important annual celebrations include the arrival of the first
copper-breasted swallow to the mountains in the summer and
the first snow in the lower slopes of the mountains in the
winter. These occasions are usually celebrated together with the
closest villages.
Sylphs get everything they need from the animals they hunt and
herd and from the mountains around them, and are able to find
some use for everything they find. They dress in animal skins
and feathers and adorn themselves with complicated jewellery
made of stones, plants, seeds, feathers and animal bones.
Animal bones, wood and the ever-present stone of the
mountains are used to make weapons and tools. Sylphs live in
animal-hide tents that are easy to relocate, and only own what
they can carry.

Adventuring as Sylph:
A Sylph’s life in the wilds of their mountain, hunting and
travelling there, is an adventure unto itself. Some of the
younger Sylph have left their homelands to see the world
beyond their familiar mountains. The Crimson Empire also has
a history of training some Sylphs to skilled ninjas and spies for
the service of the Empire. Now that the trading city of Two
Dragon Port has opened its gates to the outside world, some
Sylphs have even left to see the brave new world and seek their
fortunes there.

Suggested careers: Artist, Assassin, Craftsman, Druid, Hunter,
Martial Artist, Rogue, Scout, Spy, Warrior

Typical names: Sylph names are a peculiar mixture of names
used in the Crimson Empire and names derived from nature.
Sylph names usually end in a vowel. 
Typical female names are Birche, Changyi, Chionodi, Flora,
Lanfei, Luli and Qiuyue.
Typical male names include Aconi, Bohai, Lei, Monti, Shany,
Shilaji and Tengfei.
Sylph surname is derived from the name of
their village. Villages are usually named after animals or other
creations of nature, e.g. Village of Hawk, Leopard, Goat or
Juniper.