CON, REF or EMP +1
Initial skill ranks: Survival 2, Brawl 1, Stealth 1
15 CP can be used to buy ranks in the following skills:
Athletics, Animal Handling, Bluff, Brawl, Cooking, Dodge,
First Aid, Forgery, Gaming, Grappling, Handguns, Intimidate,
Listen, Melee (Balanced), Melee (Powerful), Spot, Stealth,
Survival, Throw or to purchase up to 10 CP worth of acquirable
advantages.
Starting Wealth level cannot be higher than ‘Well off’.

One of the the toughest fates in Victora is to be born into a
lower class family. Most of the lower class people receive only
very basic education, if any, and many of them cannot even
write their own name, let alone read. The masses of the
Victoran lower class are the ones who work in the countless
mines, factories, shipyards and other sites important to the
rapidly growing industry of Victora. They are the ones who
keep the wheels of the growing cities turning. The working
days and weeks are long, salaries are low and working
conditions leave much to be hoped for. It is a small comfort that
the people of the Victoran lower class don’t have much free
time to ponder upon the state of their living.

Some lower class families lead a decent life with the bread the
adults of the family bring to the table, but in many families
even young children have to go to work, handling simple and
lighter tasks, such as gathering scrap metal in factories. Despite
this, some families still don’t have enough money to feed and
clothe their many children, and thus some of the children are
left on the streets. Most of the youngsters of the Victoran lower
class learn to defend themselves and survive in less than
desirable circumstances at an early age.

Much of the Victoran lower class still live in the countryside,
which is the main source of food and other basic resources in
Victora. Farm life has more freedom than working in the city,
but children are equally likely to need to work on the
countryside as well, especially during the busy planting and
harvest seasons. The lives of those peasants who are lucky
enough to live under the rule of a good lord are much happier
than those of most city-dwellers, but the unlucky ones suffer
under heavy-handed taxation while their gluttonous lords grow
fat.

Under these circumstances it is understandable that a rebellion
is brewing in Victora. The workers are rising to barricades to
improve their living standards out of the gutter - if not for
themselves, then for their children. The peasants are starting to
question the rule of their lords. The example of Free Islands’
democracy has fed more fuel to these flames. The Victoran
Rebellion has adopted many of the ways of this newly formed
nation, including jazz, the music of the free people.

Adventuring as a Lower Class Victoran:
It isn’t hard to find reasons for a lower class Victoran to leave
her normal life behind and starting a career as an adventurer.
Almost any alternative would be an improvement to the
monotony of endless labour. If given the chance, many Victoran
lower class people would take up the offer to join a mercenary
group or another adventuring opportunity, but many of the
downtrodden lack the imagination or the ambition to rise above
the squalor that is the only life they have ever known.

Suggested careers: Con Artist, Craftsman, Hunter, Mercenary,
Rogue, Sailor, Scout, Soldier, Warrior

Typical names:
Victoran lower class people have short, typically English
sounding names. Southern Victoran names have a more French
or South European flavour. Female names include Amy, Brett,
Hannah, Katie and Pepper, male names include Ash, Bob, Brad,
Cole, John and Stan. Surnames are simple, and often describe
the family trade or are otherwise descriptive, like Brown, Hill,
Miller, Smith and Tanner