DEX, INT or WIT +1
Initial skill ranks: Appraise 2, Persuade 1, Negotiate 1
15 CP can be used to buy ranks in the following skills:
Appraise, Bluff, Brawl, Craft (any), Cooking, Negotiate,
Etiquette, Handguns, Intimidate, Martial Arts (Victoran
Pugilism), Mechanics, Perform (dancing), Persuade, Profession
(any), Ride.

The Victoran middle class lead more prosperous lives than the
lower class, but lack the status of the upper class. So, as the
upper class still looks down on them as commoners, the lower
class counts them as the same oppressors as the upper class but
often a safer target for venting their anger than the nobility. On
the other hand, both sides recognise the middle class as a vital
part of society.

The Victoran middle class includes people of many trades:
merchants, small landowners, scholars, well faring craftsmen,
butlers and artists, to name but a few. There is one thing in
common for the middle class: they strive for higher status, more
wealth, more customers, more fame. Most middle class people
are born to middle class families, the children of merchant and
craftsman families, or the families of minor landlords. Some
have fought their way up from the lower class by their wits and
skill to establish a successful trade or profession. And there are
some who have once tasted the bitter sweet fruit of being a
member of the upper class but then fallen from grace to face
life in the middle class, such as a successful businessman who
has lost his fortune due to failed business ventures or an
unlucky accident and has to start all over again. It is rare for
those born into actual nobility to lose their status, but it is not
unheard of.

Many middle class people are quite content with the life they
lead. They are able to take care of their families, usually men
doing their daily work, and women looking after children and
taking care of their home. Most have a small house or even a
small farm of their own, and many also have a business to run.
Middle class children receive education in the common, larger
private schools, and some even have a governess to teach them
at home. Most middle class children receive at least 4 to 5 years
of education before becoming apprentices to learn a trade of
their own. Some even get the opportunity to study at the
university and become teachers, doctors, scientists and
specialists of different areas.

On the other hand, living in the middle class has challenges of
its own. The middle class is often subject to heavy taxation.
Many middle class Victorans are constantly struggling to
maintain their comfortable lifestyle and not plunge into the
poverty of the lower class. For others, the challenge lies in
trying to reach forward and become one of the upper class
themselves. Although at first glance it would seem that the
middle class people in Victora have an abundance of
opportunities, only a few actually possess what it takes to
continue reaching for improvement. Before long most middle
class people simply settle for the routine of doing their job and
for being happy to have sufficient food and shelter every day.

Adventuring as Middle Class Victoran:
Many reasons could encourage a middle class Victoran to start
a career as an adventurer. She could see it as an opportunity to
earn a large amount of wealth quickly in order to improve her
lifestyle and perhaps reach the status as a member of the upper
class. She may wish to break the dull everyday routines of life
at work and get to see the world. Some do it for love, some do
it for hate. Some are driven by betrayal, oath or wager, and
some do it just to experience something new and maybe have
some fun in the meantime.

Suggested careers: Artist, Banker, Butler, Craftsman,
Detective, Inventor, Journalist, Law Enforcer, Mechanic,
Merchant, Scholar, Spy, Wyrodian Priest

Typical names:
The Victoran middle class people have a wide variety of names,
mostly somewhat longer English-sounding names than the
lower class. Southern Victoran names have a more French or
Southern European flavour. Female names include Aileen,
Caitlin, Diana, Fanny, Isabel and Perlie, male names include
Alexis, Barney, Eddie, Harold, Jayson and Norbert . Surnames
are usually carried by the families over generations and often
refer to the business or craft of the family or the place from
which they originate, such as Allclock, Blackwood, Taylor and
Wright. Patronymics (although usually from an ancestor from
several generations ago), such as Stevenson, are also common.