Cost to play: 10CP
INT or CHA +1
Initial skill ranks: Etiquette 3, Negotiate 2, Language: Victoran
1
The Starting wealth level of Victoran upper class characters
must be Drifter or higher. The 5 CP cost of Drifter has already
been calculated into the Background cost and can be further
increased with CP during character creation.
15 CP can be used to buy ranks in the following skills: Art
(any), Charm, Negotiate, Etiquette, Knowledge: Heraldry,
Language (Victoran), Long Guns, Martial Arts (Fencing),
Melee (Finesse), Melee (Balanced), Perform (Dancing),
Perform (Oratory), Ride, or to improve the Starting wealth level
by 10 CP or to purchase the Noble, Victoran advantage.

The upper class of Victora rules the nation. Even if they are few
in numbers, they wield all the power in Victora - or at least they
used to. As times are changing, the Victoran upper class has
been facing more and more threats and challenges to their
supremacy.

The Victoran nobility has been the core of the Victoran upper
class for ages. Many of them have impressive family trees, lots
of influence and immense wealth. They spend their lives in
opulence, trying to impress their peers in a myriad of events,
ceremonies and celebrations, while their servants and workers
take care of the more trivial things of life such as housekeeping,
cooking etc. Their life is one of glamour, politics and
diplomacy. On the other hand their lives are regulated by the
rules of etiquette as well as the history and reputation of their
families.

The Victoran upper class has recently experienced major
changes. The rise of industrialism has made it possible to
accumulate wealth and power independent of the whims of
nobility, and so major industrialists, notable scientists and
famous craftsmen have been able to climb up and join the ranks
of upper class. Politics are changing, and in the modern world,
money is power. Some of the old houses of the nobility are
suddenly afraid of their status, as businessmen born to peasant
bloodlines are now standing amongst them as near-equals, and
sometimes with far more wealth than some of the nobility has
ever seen.

Most upper class children lead very secure lives, and although
their personal freedom may be limited (for their own safety, of
course), all their material needs are satisfied. They unused to
physical work, and they tend to have much more free time for
pursuing hobbies and partying than youngsters of the lower and
middle classes. They are educated by governesses or elite
private schools, and most of them enter universities, even if
they may never need to actually work for a single day of their
lives. Some upper class people do work, but these are almost
without exception positions of importance, such as highranking
officials, and usually the second and third sons of upper
class families have to find a job to make their living, whereas
daughters are encouraged to marry to families of good standing.
The importance of family history and reputation is emphasised
for the children of the upper class at an early age, as are the
skills of diplomacy and presenting oneself in favourable light.
Although it might seem like the people of the upper class want
for nothing, their lives is far from a bed of roses. Strict rules
regulate their lives, and they are constantly walking the very
thin lines between diplomacy and deceit. Backstabbing has
never been unknown within the Victoran upper class, and there
are no signs of change in this matter. Many upper class people
are also worried about the rise of the workers and women’s
right movements, which are seen as threats to their status. On
the other hand, there are some upper class people who have
declared themselves patrons of the movements, and work for a
chance for a better life for all Victorans in the future.

Adventuring as Upper Class Victoran:
Some of the upper class Victorans have duties that lead them to
an adventurer’s life, such as diplomatic missions to foreign
countries, working as spies or leading expeditions to conquer
new lands. Business may take some of the more hands-on
industrialists onto long trips and adventures. However, most of
the upper class Victorans who have taken up adventuring are
those youngsters who have gotten tired of the strict regulations
of upper class life and have left it behind to see the world.

Suggested careers: 
Assassin, Inventor, Journalist, Lawyer,
Officer, Physician, Politician, Scholar, Spy

Typical names:
The Victoran upper class people prefer long, elaborate names.
The differences between northern and southern naming
conventions are less prominent among the upper class, as many
upper class families have merged through marriage across the
whole country. Female names include Annabelle, Eleanora,
Ophelia, Patricia, Ravenna and Seraphina, male names include
Alexander, Beaumont, Leonard, Quentin, Radclyffe and
Theodore. Family names are important, and are presented with
pride, as the name carries with it the power behind the
individual. Notable noble surnames include the names of the
ducal families: Charleston, MacLachlan, O’Callaghan and
Neville.