INT or CHA +1
Initial skill ranks: Etiquette 2, Negotiate 1, Language:
Wulffgartian 1
10 CP can be used to buy ranks in the following skills: Charm,
Negotiate, Etiquette, Intimidate, Language (Wulffgartian), Law
(Wulffgart), Long Guns, Perform (Dancing), Perform (Oratory),
Ride, or to improve the Starting wealth level or to purchase the
Noble, Wulffgartian advantage.

Members of the Wulffgartian upper class used to be the leaders
of their nation and those who were respected by everyone. After
the military coup removed the Tzar from his throne, most of the
land and property that used to be owned by the nobles were
confiscated by the military regime to be used for “the nation’s
good” by the army. What the nobles were allowed to keep was
mostly their fancy titles, now without the influence and
authority they used to bring, as well as what little land and
property the military allowed them to retain. Many even lost
their family manors.

Not everyone from the upper class accepted this. Those who
refused to recognise the new ruler or surrender most of their
property to the army were either killed or jailed, unless they
managed to flee abroad. Even most of the Wulffgartian wealthy
citizens who initially resisted this reallocation of their property
eventually swallowed their pride and tried to get the best of the
situation, keeping what the military regime let them keep and
trying to maintain reasonable relations with their new rulers.
Even without most of their earlier property, those of the
Wulffgartian upper class who submitted to the new rule can still
live rather luxurious individual lives. Their basic needs are
satisfied, and most were allowed to keep some of their land and
properties so as to provide their more special needs, and some
managed to secrete away enough money to buy what they need
and want. Their status in politics is mostly symbolic with little
actual power, a fact many nobles find displeasing. Only those
with contacts within the military rulers of Wulffgart have any
influence in steering the course of the nation nowadays.
Those who did not submit but managed to stay alive either live
in exile away from Wulffgart or in jails in Wulffgart. The new
Wulffgartian rulers officially claim that none of the traitors
managed to flee them. Even though these exiles come from an
upper class background, most of them have little property left.
Their life is harder than even those of the lowest class in
Wulffgart, unless they happen to have wealthy protectors
outside Wulffgart. These exiles serve to inspire a fiery spirit of
rebellion among many of the Wulffgartian upper class. Some
Victoran nobles have even taken Wulffgartian upper class
refugees under their wings and act as patrons to the brewing
rebellion.

Adventuring as Upper Class Wulffgartian:
Some upper class Wulffgartians choose to become adventurers.
To others, the choice was made for them. Those still living in
Wulffgart and at least pretending to bow to the new rulers find
plenty of opportunities to serve the army, and some who are
well connected can find business abroad. Many of those who
fled the country during and after the coup have taken up work
as mercenaries and explorers for their living.

Suggested careers: 
Assassin, Banker, Con Artist, Inventor,
Lawyer, Mercenary, Merchant, Officer, Politician, Scholar, Spy

Typical names:
Traditional Wulffgartian upper class names are somewhat
different from those of the commoners and are usually more
sophisticated. Typical male first names include Andrei,
Konstantin, Leonid, Nikolaus, Siegfried, Stanislav and
Wolfgang and female first names Anastasia, Bertilda, Gerlinde,
Yekaterina, Margareta and Yelena. Typical Wulffgartian upper
class surnames include Ivanov, Diefenback, Kirchner and
Vasilyev.