STR +1
Initial skill ranks: 
Law: Wulffgart 2, Etiquette 1, Intimidate 1.
10 CP can be used to buy ranks in the following skills: Animal
Handling, Athletics, Brawl, Craft (Gunsmithing), Explosives &
Demolitions, First Aid, Handguns, Intimidate, Law (Wulffgart),
Leadership, Long Guns, Martial Arts (Wolfbite), Melee
(Powerful), Ride, Stealth, Strategy/Tactics.

In the eyes of the current rulers of Wulffgart, the military is the
most honoured class of the nation. Military leaders are currently
holding the reins of Wulffgartian politics, but as with all armies,
the rank-and-file vastly outnumber those with rank in the
military class of Wulffgart. The veterans of the 80 Year War are
held in high esteem, and everyone with the skills and the will to
serve their country in military service are enlisted into the army
into a position that reflects their abilities. This makes the army
of Wulffgart one of the largest in the whole Erthair.
The military is also responsible for guard duties and law
enforcement in Wulffgart. All positions of important public
servants are held by military officers, including in the courts of
justice. Even schools are organised by the military, and most
teachers have a military background. The nation offers strong
supports to military families, trying to ensure they receive
better education than children of the worker families.
A military background means better income, better reputation
and better access to important jobs as public servants or
politicians. Most military families need not worry about their
basic needs, and some, especially the families of high ranking
military officers, even lead rather luxurious lives. However, not
everyone in Wulffgart respects their authority and standing
equally. While most of the common folk don’t mind the
situation, many from the old Wulffgartian upper class resent the
new regime.
Being born to a military family in Wulffgart usually means
strict rules and orderly upbringing. Their children don’t have
much personal freedom. They learn to follow orders and are
taught the laws and customs of modern Wulffgart at a young
age in the militant environment, with plenty of opportunities for
learning combat skills. Of course, there are some who find the
idea of a restricted and orderly life pursuing a military career
unattractive, but those who leave their military backgrounds to
choose another path without good reason are frowned upon in
Wulffgartian society.

Adventuring as Military Wulffgartian:
A Wulffgartian soldier can end up adventuring as part of her
service. As the military is responsible for a multitude of tasks,
soldiers are usually the ones sent out as exploration parties,
spies or simply to guard something or someone. Others have
deserted, often finding work as mercenaries in other countries.

Suggested careers: 
Assassin, Detective, Gunner, Inventor, Law
Enforcer, Lawyer, Martial Artist, Officer, Politician, Ranger,
Scholar, Scout, Soldier, Spy

Typical names: People of both worker and upper classes can
have a Wulffgartian military background, so their names come
from both classes as well. See the typical name lists for Worker
class and Upper class