STR, CON or INT +1
Initial skill ranks: Craft (Gunsmithing 2), Craft (any) 1,
Mechanics 1
10 CP can be used to buy ranks in the following skills: Animal
Handling, Brawl, Clockwork, Cooking, Craft (any), Drive, 
First Aid, Locksmithing, Mechanics, Persuade, Profession (any),
Ride.

The life of Wulffgartian workers has improved since the feudal
days. The fruits of their labour are vital to the army, so their pay
has increased, even though they are still expected to work as
long and as hard as before. As the nation considers itself to be
in a state of war even in the modern time of cold war, more
workers are needed in factories all across the land, so even
youngsters are hired to work in the service of military industry.
Many workers are also needed to tend the expansive fields and
farms of the Wulffgartian countryside.

Most children of Wulffgartian worker families receive basic
education and learn to read and count. They also learn many
crafts, as well as the basics of trade and street brawling, with
other youngsters of the large worker communities or
countryside villages. Higher education is available only to the
select few, either those whose families have contacts to people
with influence or those who are picked during their military
training to develop their exceptional talents in a field of
specialty.

In the old days it was hard for a worker to rise to any other
position in life. This has recently changed, because those who
show exceptional qualities towards military professions during
their military service can be chosen to have a military career.
Everyone without military tendencies, even the most skilled
craftsmen and inventors, are classified as workers, and most
workers get paid equally, no matter how demanding their job is,
unless they are specifically important for the military
government.

The pay of Wulffgartian workers can cover their basic needs,
but not much more. Their life isn’t easy, but at least they need
not fear starvation or freezing to death during cold nights. Their
work is hard and often hazardous. Those who are too old or
unwell to do their work are either left under the protection of
their families, or without protection at all.
As the conditions of Wulffgartian workers have improved (at
least to some extent) during the last 16 years, and the
government is promising even more improvements, most
workers are quite content with the situation and happy with the
current ruler.

Adventuring as Wulffgartian Worker:
Wulffgartian workers don’t usually have excess time for
adventuring on the side of their daily work, so usually only
those who are willing to leave their work behind start a new
career as adventurers. They might be looking forward to a
military career, riches or new experiences, or they may just be
in need of a change of scenery from their drab daily routines.

Suggested careers: 
Banker, Craftsman, Hunter, Journalist,
Mechanic, Sailor, Scholar, Servant

Typical names:
Common Wulffgartian first names for men include Alexei,
Boris, Franco, Herman, Reinhart and Sergei, and for women
Alina, Carla, Elise, Helene, Karina and Svenja. Common
Wulffgartian surnames include Ackermann, Becker, Krupin and
Petrov. 